README.md, before:

# PrepArr

[![CI](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/robbeverhelst/Preparr)](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/releases/latest)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> **Infrastructure as Code for Servarr** - Complete automation from fresh PostgreSQL to fully configured Servarr stacks

PrepArr eliminates manual Servarr setup by managing your entire media stack configuration as code. Deploy once, configure through JSON files, never touch a web UI again.

## 🎯 What PrepArr Does

**Before PrepArr:**
- Manual database setup for each Servarr app
- Clicking through setup wizards for API keys, users, settings
- Configuring download clients, indexers, quality profiles by hand
- No way to version control or replicate configurations
- Config drift when containers restart

**After PrepArr:**
- Automated PostgreSQL database initialization
- Generated config.xml with API keys and database connections
- Complete configuration management through JSON files
- GitOps-ready: version control your entire media stack
- Continuous reconciliation keeps everything in sync

**⚠️ Requirements:** PostgreSQL backend only (SQLite not supported)

## 🏗️ Architecture

PrepArr uses a **three-container pattern** for each Servarr application:

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Init Container] -->|prepares| B[Shared Volume]
    B -->|mounts| C[Servarr App]
    B -->|watches| D[Sidecar Container]
    E[Config Files] -->|loads| A
    E -->|monitors| D
```

1. **Init Container** - Runs once, sets up databases and config.xml, then exits
2. **Servarr App** - Standard Linuxserver container using prepared config
3. **Sidecar Container** - Continuously applies your JSON configuration

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Complete Sonarr Stack
```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:16-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      POSTGRES_DB: servarr

  # 1. Init Container - Setup databases and config.xml
  sonarr-init:
    image: ghcr.io/robbeverhelst/preparr:latest
    command: ["bun", "run", "dist/index.js", "--init"]
    environment:
      POSTGRES_HOST: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      SERVARR_URL: http://sonarr:8989
      SERVARR_TYPE: sonarr
      SERVARR_ADMIN_PASSWORD: adminpass
      CONFIG_PATH: /config/sonarr-config.json
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./sonarr-config.json:/config/sonarr-config.json:ro
    depends_on: [postgres]

  # 2. Servarr App - Standard container
  sonarr:
    image: linuxserver/sonarr:latest
    ports: ["8989:8989"]
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./tv:/tv
      - ./downloads:/downloads
    depends_on:
      sonarr-init:
        condition: service_completed_successfully

  # 3. Sidecar - Continuous configuration management
  sonarr-sidecar:
    image: ghcr.io/robbeverhelst/preparr:latest
    environment:
      POSTGRES_HOST: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      SERVARR_URL: http://sonarr:8989
      SERVARR_TYPE: sonarr
      SERVARR_ADMIN_PASSWORD: adminpass
      CONFIG_PATH: /config/sonarr-config.json
      CONFIG_WATCH: "true"
      HEALTH_PORT: 9001
    ports: ["9001:9001"]
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./sonarr-config.json:/config/sonarr-config.json:ro
    depends_on: [sonarr]

volumes:
  sonarr_config:
```

### Configuration File (`sonarr-config.json`)
Define your entire Servarr setup as code:

```json
{
  "apiKey": "2bac5d00dca43258313c734821a15c4c",
  "prowlarrSync": true,
  "rootFolders": [
    {
      "path": "/tv",
      "accessible": true
    }
  ],
  "qualityProfiles": [
    {
      "name": "HD - 1080p",
      "cutoff": 1080,
      "items": [
        {
          "quality": { "id": 1, "name": "HDTV-1080p" },
          "allowed": true
        },
        {
          "quality": { "id": 2, "name": "WEBDL-1080p" },
          "allowed": true
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "downloadClients": [
    {
      "name": "qBittorrent",
      "implementation": "QBittorrent",
      "implementationName": "qBittorrent",
      "configContract": "QBittorrentSettings",
      "fields": [
        { "name": "host", "value": "qbittorrent" },
        { "name": "port", "value": 8080 },
        { "name": "username", "value": "admin" },
        { "name": "password", "value": "adminpass" },
        { "name": "category", "value": "tv" }
      ],
      "enable": true,
      "priority": 1
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Configuration Options

**`prowlarrSync`** - Set to `true` to allow Prowlarr to manage indexers automatically via application sync. When enabled, the sidecar skips indexer management to prevent conflicts with Prowlarr's indexer synchronization.

- `true` - Prowlarr manages indexers (recommended for multi-service setups)
- `false` - Sidecar manages indexers directly via config file (default)

## 🎯 Multi-Service Setup

For complete Prowlarr + Sonarr + Radarr stack, see our [docker-compose.test.yml](docker-compose.test.yml) which includes:

- **Prowlarr** managing indexers and syncing to Sonarr/Radarr
- **Sonarr** for TV shows with automatic download client setup  
- **Radarr** for movies with shared qBittorrent client
- **qBittorrent** configured automatically by PrepArr
- **Shared PostgreSQL** database for all services

Each service gets its own init + sidecar containers managing separate config files.

## 🔧 How It Works

### Init Mode (`--init`)
1. **Database Setup**: Creates PostgreSQL databases and users
2. **Config Generation**: Creates config.xml with database credentials and API keys
3. **API Key Management**: Generates or uses provided API keys
4. **Initial Configuration**: Applies your JSON config for first boot
5. **Exits**: Lets the main Servarr container start with prepared config

### Sidecar Mode (default)
1. **Waits**: For Servarr application to be ready
2. **Monitors**: JSON configuration files for changes
3. **Reconciles**: Applies configuration via Servarr APIs
4. **Health**: Exposes /health and /ready endpoints
5. **Repeats**: Continuous monitoring and drift correction

## 🌟 Key Benefits

- **Zero Manual Setup** - Fresh deployments boot directly to configured state
- **Configuration as Code** - Version control your entire media stack
- **Truly Stateless** - Eliminates persistent config volumes, Servarr apps become ephemeral
- **Drift Prevention** - Sidecar ensures config stays as specified
- **GitOps Ready** - Update configs via git, automatic deployment
- **Multi-Service** - Coordinate complex Prowlarr + Sonarr + Radarr setups

## 🎯 Supported Services

| Service | Init Support | Sidecar Support | Notes |
|---------|--------------|-----------------|--------|
| **Sonarr** | ✅ | ✅ | TV shows, full automation |
| **Radarr** | ✅ | ✅ | Movies, full automation |  
| **Prowlarr** | ✅ | ✅ | Indexers + app sync |
| **qBittorrent** | ✅ | ⚠️ | Config file management |
| **Lidarr** | 🚧 | 🚧 | Coming soon |
| **Readarr** | 🚧 | 🚧 | Coming soon |

**Integration Features:**
- Automatic qBittorrent web UI configuration
- Prowlarr ↔ Sonarr/Radarr application syncing
- PostgreSQL database and user management
- Health monitoring for Kubernetes deployments

## 📦 Deployment Options

- **Docker Compose** - See examples above and in [examples/](examples/)
- **Kubernetes** - Init containers + sidecars + ConfigMaps

## 🛡️ Production Ready

- **Health Checks** - `/health` and `/ready` endpoints for orchestrators
- **Observability** - Structured JSON logging with correlation IDs  
- **Configuration Validation** - Zod schema validation prevents bad configs
- **Error Recovery** - Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Signal Handling** - Graceful shutdown on SIGTERM/SIGINT
- **Security** - Runs as non-root, secrets via environment variables

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Complete Setup Guide](docs/setup.md)** - Detailed deployment instructions
- **[Configuration Reference](docs/configuration.md)** - All configuration options
- **[Kubernetes Deployment](docs/kubernetes.md)** - K8s manifests and Helm charts
- **[Health & Monitoring](docs/monitoring.md)** - Health checks and Prometheus metrics
- **[Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md)** - Common issues and solutions

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Infrastructure as Code for Servarr** • [Examples →](examples/) • [GitHub Packages →](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/preparr/pkgs/container/preparr)

Commit message:

fix: update Chart description and README with Helm repository installation
- Remove broken logo reference from Chart.yaml
- Expand description to explain PrepArr's automation capabilities
- Add Helm chart installation section to README with ArtifactHub link
- Document proper helm repo add command

README.md, after:

# PrepArr

[![CI](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/robbeverhelst/Preparr)](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/Preparr/releases/latest)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> **Infrastructure as Code for Servarr** - Complete automation from fresh PostgreSQL to fully configured Servarr stacks

PrepArr eliminates manual Servarr setup by managing your entire media stack configuration as code. Deploy once, configure through JSON files, never touch a web UI again.

## 🎯 What PrepArr Does

**Before PrepArr:**
- Manual database setup for each Servarr app
- Clicking through setup wizards for API keys, users, settings
- Configuring download clients, indexers, quality profiles by hand
- No way to version control or replicate configurations
- Config drift when containers restart

**After PrepArr:**
- Automated PostgreSQL database initialization
- Generated config.xml with API keys and database connections
- Complete configuration management through JSON files
- GitOps-ready: version control your entire media stack
- Continuous reconciliation keeps everything in sync

**⚠️ Requirements:** PostgreSQL backend only (SQLite not supported)

## 🏗️ Architecture

PrepArr uses a **three-container pattern** for each Servarr application:

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Init Container] -->|prepares| B[Shared Volume]
    B -->|mounts| C[Servarr App]
    B -->|watches| D[Sidecar Container]
    E[Config Files] -->|loads| A
    E -->|monitors| D
```

1. **Init Container** - Runs once, sets up databases and config.xml, then exits
2. **Servarr App** - Standard Linuxserver container using prepared config
3. **Sidecar Container** - Continuously applies your JSON configuration

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Complete Sonarr Stack
```yaml
version: '3.8'
services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:16-alpine
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      POSTGRES_DB: servarr

  # 1. Init Container - Setup databases and config.xml
  sonarr-init:
    image: ghcr.io/robbeverhelst/preparr:latest
    command: ["bun", "run", "dist/index.js", "--init"]
    environment:
      POSTGRES_HOST: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      SERVARR_URL: http://sonarr:8989
      SERVARR_TYPE: sonarr
      SERVARR_ADMIN_PASSWORD: adminpass
      CONFIG_PATH: /config/sonarr-config.json
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./sonarr-config.json:/config/sonarr-config.json:ro
    depends_on: [postgres]

  # 2. Servarr App - Standard container
  sonarr:
    image: linuxserver/sonarr:latest
    ports: ["8989:8989"]
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./tv:/tv
      - ./downloads:/downloads
    depends_on:
      sonarr-init:
        condition: service_completed_successfully

  # 3. Sidecar - Continuous configuration management
  sonarr-sidecar:
    image: ghcr.io/robbeverhelst/preparr:latest
    environment:
      POSTGRES_HOST: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: postgres123
      SERVARR_URL: http://sonarr:8989
      SERVARR_TYPE: sonarr
      SERVARR_ADMIN_PASSWORD: adminpass
      CONFIG_PATH: /config/sonarr-config.json
      CONFIG_WATCH: "true"
      HEALTH_PORT: 9001
    ports: ["9001:9001"]
    volumes:
      - sonarr_config:/config
      - ./sonarr-config.json:/config/sonarr-config.json:ro
    depends_on: [sonarr]

volumes:
  sonarr_config:
```

### Configuration File (`sonarr-config.json`)
Define your entire Servarr setup as code:

```json
{
  "apiKey": "2bac5d00dca43258313c734821a15c4c",
  "prowlarrSync": true,
  "rootFolders": [
    {
      "path": "/tv",
      "accessible": true
    }
  ],
  "qualityProfiles": [
    {
      "name": "HD - 1080p",
      "cutoff": 1080,
      "items": [
        {
          "quality": { "id": 1, "name": "HDTV-1080p" },
          "allowed": true
        },
        {
          "quality": { "id": 2, "name": "WEBDL-1080p" },
          "allowed": true
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "downloadClients": [
    {
      "name": "qBittorrent",
      "implementation": "QBittorrent",
      "implementationName": "qBittorrent",
      "configContract": "QBittorrentSettings",
      "fields": [
        { "name": "host", "value": "qbittorrent" },
        { "name": "port", "value": 8080 },
        { "name": "username", "value": "admin" },
        { "name": "password", "value": "adminpass" },
        { "name": "category", "value": "tv" }
      ],
      "enable": true,
      "priority": 1
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Configuration Options

**`prowlarrSync`** - Set to `true` to allow Prowlarr to manage indexers automatically via application sync. When enabled, the sidecar skips indexer management to prevent conflicts with Prowlarr's indexer synchronization.

- `true` - Prowlarr manages indexers (recommended for multi-service setups)
- `false` - Sidecar manages indexers directly via config file (default)

## 🎯 Multi-Service Setup

For complete Prowlarr + Sonarr + Radarr stack, see our [docker-compose.test.yml](docker-compose.test.yml) which includes:

- **Prowlarr** managing indexers and syncing to Sonarr/Radarr
- **Sonarr** for TV shows with automatic download client setup  
- **Radarr** for movies with shared qBittorrent client
- **qBittorrent** configured automatically by PrepArr
- **Shared PostgreSQL** database for all services

Each service gets its own init + sidecar containers managing separate config files.

## 🔧 How It Works

### Init Mode (`--init`)
1. **Database Setup**: Creates PostgreSQL databases and users
2. **Config Generation**: Creates config.xml with database credentials and API keys
3. **API Key Management**: Generates or uses provided API keys
4. **Initial Configuration**: Applies your JSON config for first boot
5. **Exits**: Lets the main Servarr container start with prepared config

### Sidecar Mode (default)
1. **Waits**: For Servarr application to be ready
2. **Monitors**: JSON configuration files for changes
3. **Reconciles**: Applies configuration via Servarr APIs
4. **Health**: Exposes /health and /ready endpoints
5. **Repeats**: Continuous monitoring and drift correction

## 🌟 Key Benefits

- **Zero Manual Setup** - Fresh deployments boot directly to configured state
- **Configuration as Code** - Version control your entire media stack
- **Truly Stateless** - Eliminates persistent config volumes, Servarr apps become ephemeral
- **Drift Prevention** - Sidecar ensures config stays as specified
- **GitOps Ready** - Update configs via git, automatic deployment
- **Multi-Service** - Coordinate complex Prowlarr + Sonarr + Radarr setups

## 🎯 Supported Services

| Service | Init Support | Sidecar Support | Notes |
|---------|--------------|-----------------|--------|
| **Sonarr** | ✅ | ✅ | TV shows, full automation |
| **Radarr** | ✅ | ✅ | Movies, full automation |  
| **Prowlarr** | ✅ | ✅ | Indexers + app sync |
| **qBittorrent** | ✅ | ⚠️ | Config file management |
| **Lidarr** | 🚧 | 🚧 | Coming soon |
| **Readarr** | 🚧 | 🚧 | Coming soon |

**Integration Features:**
- Automatic qBittorrent web UI configuration
- Prowlarr ↔ Sonarr/Radarr application syncing
- PostgreSQL database and user management
- Health monitoring for Kubernetes deployments

## 📦 Deployment Options

### Helm Chart (Recommended)

```bash
# Add the Helm repository
helm repo add preparr https://robbeverhelst.github.io/Preparr
helm repo update

# Install the complete stack
helm install my-media-stack preparr/preparr

# Or with custom values
helm install my-media-stack preparr/preparr -f custom-values.yaml
```

Find the chart on [ArtifactHub](https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/preparr/preparr) or see the [Helm chart documentation](helm/preparr/README.md).

### Docker Compose

See examples above and in [examples/](examples/) directory.

### Kubernetes

Use the Helm chart or manual manifests with init containers + sidecars + ConfigMaps.

## 🛡️ Production Ready

- **Health Checks** - `/health` and `/ready` endpoints for orchestrators
- **Observability** - Structured JSON logging with correlation IDs  
- **Configuration Validation** - Zod schema validation prevents bad configs
- **Error Recovery** - Automatic retry with exponential backoff
- **Signal Handling** - Graceful shutdown on SIGTERM/SIGINT
- **Security** - Runs as non-root, secrets via environment variables

## 📖 Documentation

- **[Complete Setup Guide](docs/setup.md)** - Detailed deployment instructions
- **[Configuration Reference](docs/configuration.md)** - All configuration options
- **[Kubernetes Deployment](docs/kubernetes.md)** - K8s manifests and Helm charts
- **[Health & Monitoring](docs/monitoring.md)** - Health checks and Prometheus metrics
- **[Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md)** - Common issues and solutions

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## 📝 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

**Infrastructure as Code for Servarr** • [Examples →](examples/) • [GitHub Packages →](https://github.com/robbeverhelst/preparr/pkgs/container/preparr)
